---
title: Half-Life's 20th Anniversary
layout: post
---

Looking back at my posts, it’s shocking that I haven’t mentioned anything about my favourite series of games. I remember being about 9 or 10 when I begged my parents incessantly to buy me the game having played the demo on a PC Gamer disk. I remember walking into the living room one day after school with my dad joking that he’d bought me a maths edutainment game, only to reveal he got me the game in all of its big orange boxed glory.

The truth is, for a good few years, I was absolutely terrified to play the game beyond the preamble to the test sequence. One time, I had my mother stay in the room with me to get past that (I was around 9 at the time, give me a break). It took a few years after that before I finally had the stones to take a crack at completing the game.

After that, I dug my claws firmly into the mod scene. I remember frequenting Mod DB incessantly and posting complete garbage on their forums about my own ‘mod’ I was working on. I got into Valve Hammer Editor pretty heavily, and yet was incapable of actually producing a map that could compile on its own. And then, I had the nerve to try to produce my own, directionless mod. I don’t want to share any more details because it’s another case of one’s own web history doing shame to them in later life. Much like my Gaia Online account, I really hope that stays lost to the annals of the early 2000s internet.

I still fondly remember playing mods like Azure Sheep or the several hundred vignette games that existed back them. There was even an internet radio station I’d listen to that followed the events of the modding scene (Although, the name escapes me).

Following the release of Half-Life 2 came the emergence of the GMod comic communities, on such being PHW Online. The site died at some point in the mid-late 00s with very little fanfare. Much the same, I could not produce a comic to save my life, but still talked a big game. I once again am thankful that my activity from that period has died along with the site itself. Being a hormonal teenager on the internet does horrible things for you in later life.

I suppose I’m rambling a little, but the anniversary coming up on the 19th has really made me pause and think about how influential the Half-Life series has been on me growing up. And the sad thing is, I have a suspicion that this event will pass by with very little fanfare. No Clip are producing a documentary, but to the best of my knowledge that actually may be it. I wonder if Valve will do absolutely anything to commemorate the event.

Or, maybe – just maybe – the recent rumours of Half-LIfe VR are true, and they’ll publish a teaser trailer on its anniversary.

Oh, who am I kidding. We’ve lived in bated breath for a good 11 years now for a sequel. It’s over, boys. Just remember the good times.
