---
title: How I Finally Adopted Linux As A Daily Driver 
layout: post 
---

This post was originally going to be very different.

For me the ascent to unix-like bliss began like everyone else where I had to learn a few bash commands to get by. Frankly, anyone with so much as a passing interest in web development has to learn a few bash commands. Then I started working with NPM and needed a development environment. Vagrant gave me nothing but grief, and while Docker worked admirably I still had a few lingering issues that it simply couldn’t address – so I ended up using Ubuntu WSL.

That went swimmingly for a while, until I noticed there were more and more packages that just wouldn’t work (WSL is a headless form of Linux, so it seems like nearly everything with a GUI won’t work). That was the last straw. It was then that I decided I’d give having a fully featured version of Linux on my machine.

The last time I tried was a few years ago when I bought a Thinkpad x220, having installed Debian on it. There seems to be some kind of law that anyone in possession of a Thinkpad x220 has to have some flavour of Linux running on it, otherwise Richard Stallman will burst through your window and take you to the Free Software Foundation forced re-education camp.

I had a very poor experience with Debian, having spent two days trying to get me WiFi driver working. Following that, I spent a simply embarrassing amount of time trying to find out how to display my battery life on the bottom-right corner. Eventually, a friend’s partner was looking for a laptop so I just gave it to her. She ended up purchasing a Windows 10 Home key. 

My experience this time was beset with the same measure of agony. First, the installation media kept getting corrupted when writing to it, so I had to download several torrents of Kubuntu before it played nice with my USB stick. After that, again, I couldn’t find a suitable WiFi driver. After two reinstalls, I one day logged in just to find that my desktop was missing save for a terminal window. All I did was something as inconsequential as force anti-aliasing. 

Did I forget to mention that, after one reboot, my secondary hard drive started making some concerning whirring noises and locked up?

I was really tearing my hair out by that point, but decided that I would give it one last try. This time I gave up on anything Cannoical related and opted for Fedora 29 Workstation. Let me tell you, my friends, that was one day ago and I have since seen the light. 

Now that I have a handle on installing packages and tinkering away I truly am blown away by how fast I get things done. GNOME may get a lot of flack for lacking customisability, but my oh my is it streamlined and beautiful. Vim no longer resents me using an OS it wasn’t designed for, and now I have no problems installing packages whatsoever. I have had neither the inclination nor the need to boot back into Windows ever since.

And so, my friends. I have finally seen the light.
